Now that we have explained about
the elements that a triangle has,
we are going to show some properties that
special triangles have,
which are isosceles triangles. In an
isosceles triangle, the following is going to happen.
Remember, an
isosceles triangle has two congruent sides and
it is going to happen.  that every isosceles triangle,
in addition to congruent sides, will have
two congruent angles that
will precisely be the opposite angles to these
sides that have congruents, that is,
this angle here will be congruent
with this angle here, which is, observe,
not only do they have the  congruent sides
but the congruent angles the
opposites to those sides now we will not do the proof of
this nor are we going to do the
tests of the following properties
that we are going to denounce, however
those who want to know the proof can
go to the basic geometry course that is
found  homework plus dotcom
there are all the proofs about
these properties
for the moment so we have this
every isosceles triangle has two
congruent angles plus the reciprocal
will also be true that is to say if I
have a triangle that has two congruent sides
this triangle will also be  to be
isosceles is to say what is an
isosceles triangle that has two
congruent sides but what else can we say
that if it has two congruent angles
these sides that are opposite to the
angles will also be congruent and
then this triangle will be isosceles
that we already have  those two properties
of an isosceles triangle if only if
its two sides are congruent or its two
angles are congruent there we have two
ways to identify an
isosceles triangle now finally we are going to see
a very interesting property which
is the following in an
isosceles triangle the height  with respect to the base it
coincides with the median with the bisector
and with the mean 33. Observe in an
isosceles triangle everything will coincide
but with respect to the base which is the
base before that is something important and
remember here we have two
congruent sides that third side  Since
that side is not congruent, that side is going to be the base, that
is, if we have these two
congruent sides, what would be
the median. Remember, the median is the
segment that goes
from this vertex to the midpoint of
this segment.
We are going to realize that this starts
half of that, that is, it is median, which
is vice 3, that is to say, these angles here are going
to be congruent, plus it is half an
actress, that is, this here is going to be a
right angle and it is just going to be from the
middle of the segment and it is going to  be and will be
height that is to say later from this
vertex to this
side perpendicularly here we
see it clearly you observe all
these new definitions of these
elements that a triangle has will
coincide in the case of the
isosceles triangle but remember regarding
the base because if we do it with
respect to another of its sides, for example
this one,
we will clearly see that if
we put a perpendicular here,
here we have a perpendicular, which is
the height. Observe that there it is already clearly
seen in the drawing that it is not going to  be a
median say no from this segment
is congruent 3 keep in mind they
will all coincide but with respect to the
base